So we talked about expressions earlier.
We know that express values like New
York Minute means a second for instance.
And we also have something in JavaScript
called statements that are kind of.
It's not something that you're going
to need to necessarily know and
think about all the time.
But it is a little bit useful to talk
about the difference between statements
and expressions.
And as an actor,
I enjoy Colman Domingo says in this case,
I can't tell if it's a statement or
a question.
So, expressions, we could sort
of think about as being like,
questions, we asked JavaScript that say,
hey, what is this value?
So we could say that an expression asks
JavaScript for a particular value.
Like my assigned variable says,
hey, JavaScript, what's the current
value of my assigned variable?
Or hey, JavaScript, what is 6 plus 4?
That is the value 10.
Or, hey, JavaScript,
what is this element with a certain ID?
And that is a HTML element.
So, an expression as we said,
it sort of evaluates to a value.
Another way we could
think about that is it's
kind of a question that we asked
JavaScript, what is this value?
A statement is something
we tell JavaScript to do.
So, for example, we've seen
statements already that declare or
maybe just assign, or declare and
or assign values to variables.
So for example,
let 10 equals 6 plus 4; is a statement.
It says, hey JavaScript, do a few things,
create a variable called
evaluate the expression 6 plus 4,
and assign the value of that
expression to the variable 10.
JavaScript, do all of those things.
So, we are telling JavaScript to do stuff.
Whereas let's say the expression 6
plus 4 is asking JavaScript, hey,
JavaScript, what is the number
that is equal to 6 plus 4?
And so on and so forth.
If we are,
maybe we've already declared a variable,
even just declaring
a variable is a statement.
And then assigning a variable to a new
value if we've declared it with let,
is also a statement.
So these are examples of statements.
And we notice that these statement,
they tend to have a semicolon
at the end of them,
like a punctuation to say JavaScript,
I am done telling you stuff to do for
now [LAUGH].
And so this is gonna be kind of
something that we're gonna see more of.
We're going to see more
of throughout the course.
We're gonna see other types of statements
that are telling JavaScript to do
different things.
For example, tomorrow we're
going to talk about functions.
Functions have a return statement usually,
that it's going to tell JavaScript,
hey, give me back this
value from this function.
We're going to talk
more about it tomorrow.
We also have things like conditionals that
are going to have more complexity around,
if something is true,
then do some other thing, and
if something is false,
then do something else.
So, we also have things like for
statements in JavaScript,
which are gonna be loops.
And we also saw the statement
console log earlier.
That is another statement of
telling JavaScript hey, JavaScript,
print this thing to the console.
So suffice it to say that there is
kind of in our mental models here,
there's a distinction we can draw between
expressions which can be represented as
values, right?
They are equivalent to values and
statements,
which are more like actions that we
want JavaScript to take, to do stuff.
So, I bring this up just to say
that when we're thinking about our
JavaScript programs, and
the chunks of code inside of them.
Sometimes, we're gonna need a statement,
a command for
Java Script to do something, and
sometimes we're gonna need an expression.
So basically, a long winded way of asking
JavaScript for a particular value.
And they're not always interchangeable.
So, as we get used to
the syntax of JavaScript,
start wrapping our heads around when
we need a statement in a certain place,
and when we need an expression
in a certain place.
So, this is vocabulary,
is not so much important, so
much as for us to keep in mind
that sometimes we're asking
JavaScript to essentially conjure a value.
And other times we're asking
JavaScript to do stuff,
create a new variable or log something
to the console or return a value.
And that is, if you find in the literature
and blog posts, in whatever the words
statement and expression,
that is the meaning of these words.
And of course, guess where you can read
more about statements and expression?
MDN.
Yes, you get it by now, okay.
So at this point,
we're going to move on and
start talking about collection of things
like arrays and objects, as I said.
And our friend Michelle Yeoh
is going to help us do that.
But in the interests of not
overloading our brains and
making them explode from too
much JavaScripty goodness.
And also because we're humans and we get
tired and we are not the machines on
which we run our JavaScript code,
we are humans with needs for food and
sleep and things like that,
pesky little needs that we have.
We are going to take a break here and
come back to this,
start this up in part two,
day two, and jump in to arrays and
objects, and
finish our Tic-Tac-Toe game tomorrow.
So before we do that, I'm just zooming
out and recapping what we've done so far.
We talked about statements and
expressions.
We learned about expressions
as ways to express the value.
We talked about variables and
all of the different ways we
have to declare and assign them.
And we developed a strong mental model for
How JavaScript actually performs
that task of declaring variables and
figuring out what values to point them to.
And that's gonna help us out a lot
as we continue in our journey etc.
Glad you'll remember us.
And we also talked about lots of
different values and data types.
And some of the operators that we can use
on particular data types like strings,
and like our good friends, numbers,
booleans, undefined and null.
So we've really covered a lot of ground.
And this is all on top of the fact
that we actually made some changes
to our document.
Thanks to the Document Object Model.
We've gone through all kinds of stuff.
We've manipulated web pages.
We've talked about
different types of values.
We've figured out how to express
values with more complex expression.
We figured out how to remember
those values as variables.
We're going to dig into even more complex
types of variables, namely arrays and
objects.
Before looking at functions and
other ways that we can get JavaScript to
remember stuff we want to
do with our chunks of code.
Thank you all so much.
For all of your great questions and
example code, and all of that,
exploration of some of the other
things we've heard about in
JavaScript which we can always
look up on our friend MDN.